<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<refentry id='tableau-parm.1'>
  <!--  $Id$ -->
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>tableau-parm</refentrytitle>
    <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
    <refmiscinfo class="sectdesc">Forensics Utilities</refmiscinfo>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv id='name'>
    <refname>tableau-parm</refname>
    <refpurpose>Tableau Write-blocking Bridge Query/Command Utility</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>

  <refsect1 id='synopsis'>
    <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
    <para>
      <command>
	tableau-parm [-r] <replaceable>device</replaceable>
      </command> 
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='description'>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
        <command>tableau-parm</command> is designed to interact with 
        write-blocking forensics 
        bridges produced by Tableau, LLC.  It can be used to query bridges
        for various bridge and device data, as well as to disable DCO regions.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='options'>
    <title>OPTIONS</title>
    <para>
      <command>tableau-parm</command> accepts the following parameters:
    </para>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-r</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
	  <para>
	    Directs <command>tableau-parm</command> to permanently remove 
            a DCO, if it exists.  
            THIS WILL MODIFY THE STATE OF THE DRIVE. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!
            (It is recommended for forensics investigations, that a full 
            drive image be taken before this command is run, and then again 
            afterward if a DCO was detected originally.)  Note: after running 
            this, you'll need to restart the Tableau bridge for it to 
            correctly detect the changes.
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <variablelist remap='IP'>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option><replaceable>device</replaceable></option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
	  <para>
	    Required argument.  Specifies the device file for the bridge/drive
            to be queried.  This must be a device presenting SCSI emulation.  
            Under Linux, all USB and FireWire mass storage devices behave like 
            SCSI devices.  Once a bridge and drive are plugged in and powered 
            on, one can generally find out what the device was dynamically 
            mapped to by running: 
            <command>dmesg | tail -20</command>
	  </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='output'>
    <title>OUTPUT</title>
    <para>
      <command>tableau-parm</command> generates simple output with one 
      data value per line, interspersed with blank lines and section headers.
      This output format is subject to change.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='examples'>
    <title>EXAMPLES</title>
    <para>
      To query a bridge which is mapped to <command>/dev/sda</command>:
    </para>
    <para>
      <screen>
	tableau-parm /dev/sda
      </screen>
    </para>
    <para>
      To remove a DCO from the hard drive on <command>/dev/sda</command>:
    </para>
    <para>
      <screen>
	tableau-parm -r /dev/sda
      </screen>
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='bugs'>
    <title>BUGS</title>
    <para>
      Older versions of ATA and SATA Tableau firmwares didn't properly 
      handle HPA and DCO on some types of drives.  Be sure to upgrade your
      blockers' firmwares using the firmware update utility, version 4.2 or 
      later, which was released on July 5, 2007.
    </para>
    <para>
      This is not really a bug, but something to note:  when a drive has both
      an HPA and DCO section, and the DCO is removed, the HPA is removed with
      it.  This is how the bridge firmware works, and isn't something controlled
      by <command>tableau-parm</command>.  Just something to be aware of.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='credits'>
    <title>CREDITS</title>
    <para>
      Copyright (C) 2007,2009 Timothy D. Morgan
    </para>
    <para>
      Copyright (C) 1999,2001,2006,2007 D. Gilbert
    </para>
    <para>
      <command>tableau-parm</command> was written by Timothy D. Morgan using 
      portions of SCSI example code written by D. Gilbert.
    </para>
    <para>
      Tableau, LLC cooperated in the development of this tool by providing 
      documentation on the proprietary SCSI interfaces and assisted in testing.  
      Without their help, this tool would not have been possible.  Tableau, LLC 
      does not endorse or warrant this code in any way.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='license'>
    <title>LICENSE</title>
    <para>
      Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software
      distribution.
    </para>
    <para>      
      This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
      GNU General Public License version 3 for more details.
    </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1 id='seealso'>
    <title>SEE ALSO</title>
    <para>
      hdparm(1) sdparm(1)
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
